Leo Jacoby
9/26/16
Mizell, F Block

Divine Insecurities

Everyone experiences insecurities, even Helen of Troy.  Telemachus, the son of Odysseus, and Pisistratus arrive at the palace of Helen and Menelaus
in search of information about Odysseus, but Helen feels the need to emphasize her heroism during the Trojan War in order to impress the two young men.
After dinner, Menelaus and Helen both share stories about Odysseus, but Helen’s story is laden with reminders of her own noble traits.  She shares a story
about Odysseus infiltrating Troy as a beggar, and how she recognized him.  Helen’s language in her story presents her as perceptive for seeing through
Odysseus’ guise, and as loyal to the Greeks, making herself seem heroic.
    Helen’s language emphasizes her insightfulness and intuition by speaking about the quality of Odysseus’ disguise, and how she was the only one to
identify him.  When describing how Odysseus entered Troy, Helen says, “he slipped into the enemy’s city (132)”.  The word “slipped” implies he entered
discreetly, making him hard to spot.  She describes Odysseus as “all disguised, a totally different man...no one knew him at all (132)”.  Helen says
“totally different” to continue to stress the cunning of Odysseus’ disguise.  In addition, she mentions that “no one knew him at all”, further touting
her unique abilities.  Finally, she shares, “I alone, I spotted him for the man he was (132)”.  The word “alone” differentiates herself from the rest
of the Trojans.  Also, the word “spotted” implies that Odysseus was difficult to see in the first place.  Helen boasts once again of the impressiveness
of Odysseus’ disguise, and how she outsmarts the Achaean warrior.  Repeatedly, Helen reminds her listeners of Odysseus’ impressive disguise, and her
own special abilities for discovering him.
    Helen also makes a point in her story of recounting her loyalty to the Greeks during the Trojan War.  After Helen identified Odysseus undercover in
Troy, she says that she “sworn a binding oath not to reveal him. (132)”  A “binding oath” suggests severe consequences for breaking it, but Helen makes
one anyway, displaying the extent of her allegiance to the Greeks.  Helen questioned Odysseus about the Achaean strategy, but he hesitated to reveal it
to her.  Eventually, Odysseus succumbed and shared the Achaean strategy with Helen, and she returned the favor by sharing the Trojan strategy with him.
Helen says Odysseus returned “to his comrades, filled with information. (132)”  By saying “filled with information”, Helen implies she told him much about
the Trojans, and that her information was of value.  Helen wants her listeners to believe that she assisted the Greeks during the war.  On his way out of
the city, Trojan soldiers confronted Odysseus, but he killed them all.  Helen describes the sorrow of the wives of the soldiers and then differentiates
herself by saying, “Not I: my heart leapt up (132)”.  The phrase “my heart leapt up” indicates that Helen is elated.  Once again, Helen emphasizes her
loyalty to the Greeks by showing her lack of compassion for the Trojan soldiers Odysseus killed.  Helen makes a point of confirming her allegiance to
Greece multiple times in her story.
    Thousands of men died in the Trojan War, which Helen started, so understandably, she wants to improve her reputation.  By Helen cleverly modifying a
tale about Odysseus into one of her own heroism, she's cool. Helen’s language shows her perceptiveness and loyalty, displaying herself as heroic, but
Helen’s boastfulness is driven by a lack of confidence, not ego. Many people may come across as egotistical and self-absorbed, but may just be trying to
conceal their own self-doubt.  Even the most wealthy and attractive people have flaws and insecurities.
